# @Feb 21, 2020

## Agenda

- RFCs
    - → FCP
    - FCP → Merge
        - [Test Waiter Revamp](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/581) (RJ)
        - [Registry APIs: deprecate micro-syntax; introduce replacement API](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/585) (RJ)
    - → FCP to Close
    - FCP to Close → Close
    - Enable
    - Discussion
- (15 min) [Accessibility Agenda](https://www.notion.so/emberteam/Accessibility-c778ca2659e14af2aab29742d07a5755) (MRS)
- `tagName` as a class field [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/589](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/589) (CHG)
- `{{set}}` helper [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/594](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/594) (CHG)
- Modifier API [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/353#issuecomment-589771575](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/353#issuecomment-589771575) (CHG)

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz
- [ ]  Tom Dale
- [x]  Kris Selden
- [ ]  Leah Silber
- [x]  Robert Jackson
- [ ]  Igor Terzic
- [ ]  Matthew Beale
- [x]  Edward Faulkner

- [x]  Dan Gebhardt
- [ ]  Godfrey Chan
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes
- [x]  Chad Hietala
- [x]  Katie Gengler
- [x]  Melanie Sumner
- [x]  Jen Weber
- [x]  Chris Garrett

## Minutes

### FCP → Merge: Test Waiters

RJ: Will check to make sure, but I-prefixes have been removed from interfaces

RJ: Intent was not to actually expose class based versions of these (Impls) so it makes sense

DG: Was just a naming issue, not a conceptual problem

YK: We shouldn't put I-prefix on anything we ever export

RJ: Probably will never ship types so yes

RJ: Full disclosure, there is a dissenting opinion on the RFC, suggesting mocks are a better solution. Kind of orthogonal, since this RFC does not prevent going that direction.

RJ: Any opposition to FCP?

OUTCOME: Merged

### FCP → Merge: Registry APIs

RJ: New signature for the owner APIs, `lookup('component:bar')` → `lookup({ type: 'component', name: 'bar' })`

RJ: Will be a long rollout period, but I like the plan and seems solid/allows for incremental rollout

RJ: Any opposition to FCP?

OUTCOME: Merged

### Accessibility Agenda

MS: This is a high level strategy for a11y as it relates to the roadmap

MS: This is about the points at which a new Ember app fails legal requirements for the WCAG guidelines for accessible apps.

MS: The goal is to protect Ember users from lawsuits.

MS: Currently, we have an a11y section in the guides that gives users guidance on how to make their apps accessible.

MS: Current stance of the framework is it is the responsibility of the users of the framework to figure it out.

MS: This is a reasonable stance, and we could continue with it.

MS: Severity levels

MS: Level 1 - Unlikely to make it difficult for someone to access content

MS: Level 2 - Likely to make it difficult for someone to access content

MS: Level 3 - Broken for someone using accessible guides

MS: **Issue 1 - Routing**

MS: making good progress. Had a meeting with folks from WCAG/Google/Facebook

RJ: Quick question - what is the goal for this particular meeting?

MS: Would like to give the overview, and for us to come to consensus about our intent for whether we will address these in the roadmap. Ultimately would like to give a public statement about that intent.

KS: We should be careful we don't accidentally take on legal liability if we make a statement like that.

MS: Would not do that, would be more like the way we discuss security. Not a guarantee or legal binding, but policies are in place.

MS: **Issue 2 - Page Titles**

MS: When you change page, the page title should update. Currently we must use an addon to do this. Would like to add one to the default blueprint, or provide another mechanism OOTB.

MS: Users with assistive technology find this really helpful because it tells them what the page is meant to be about, what it does for them.

MS: **Issue 3 - Labels for Inputs**

MS: Adding support for this to ember-template-lint, that could be enough.

MS: Depends on the future of the built-in `Input` component.

MS: Today there isn't a way to do this with the built in `Input` nicely, except by wrapping it with a `<label>`

CG: Is that not possible today?

MS: It is, but it's not ergonomic by default, and does not encourage users to do it. We ideally should provide something OOTB that makes this *easy*.

MS: **Issue 4 - Missing Default Language Declaration**

MS: This is required for accessible technology to work correctly

MS: There was concern last time we discussed that if we made the default English, it would marginalize non-English speakers

MS: Given we have English as the default for everything else (guides, website, etc), my recommendation is to add it to new Ember apps, and allow users to learn and set it themselves

MS: **Issue 5 - Splattributes**

MS: Currently, there is no way to control merge *order* of attributes

MS: There is also no way merge values of attributes that can have multiple values, other than `class`

MS: There are Aria attributes that would benefit from being able to do control these two aspects of attributes

YK: Two things

YK: 1. Will we miss things that are important for users if we focus specifically on legal liability?

YK: 2. This seems like a really great candidate for RFC stages, specifically motivation stage. Really good motivation overall.

MS: For these issues, it's more productive to think about the legal ramifications, because this is the direction the industry is trending as a whole. Everyone is thinking about this.

MS: This could really be a good case for Ember, since it *is* a legal requirement. This is a value proposition that Ember could make.

RJ: Has many thoughts

RJ: This group would probably end up nit-picking. We need a strike team. MS has been doing this herself, but it would help a lot to get a strike team together.

RJ: Putting together strike team would be a good way to signal intent.

MS: Yeah, before a subteam was suggested. A strike team seems better, would not be pushing it into a corner.

RJ: Subteam would be more formal and permanent, but both would be good.

RJ: Best outcome today would be a commitment to addressing the a11y issues, not specific solutions.

MS: Does anyone object to starting an a11y strike team?

RJ: Vaguely prefer strike team has a clear end-goal. Needs to have a definition for complete.

YK: Strike team could be responsible for enumerating current a11y problems (using MS's research), then solving those problems.

RJ: Also, should come up with an answer for how we deal with a11y issues in the future.

RJ: Could be similar to the Glimmer strike team, which comes and goes as issues come up.

MS: To close - one possible solution here is "it's the developer's responsibility".

GC: Back to inputs: Agree that it's good to be able to do non-nested inputs with as little friction as nested. But, nested is actually really a good solution. Unfortunately it was demoted due to lack of support, and this is a bit of a vicious cycle (new tools don't support it).

MS: Also it's bad for styling

GC: Yes, but that's orthogonal. `id` based techniques end up being problematic just in terms of HTML.

YK: