# @Dec 13, 2019

## Agenda

- (**20 min**) Octane Checkin
    - ~~Linting config? - RJ~~
    - ~~Inspector support - GC~~
    - ~~replacement for `setEdition` - RJ~~
        - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/558](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/558)
    - ~~colocation caching~~ - RJ
    - ~~octanify - RJ~~
    - ember-template-lint@2.0.0 stable - RJ
        - Just needs release
    - ~~Octane Guides / Component Guides - JW / YK / CHG~~
    - ~~Glimmer API Docs~~
    - ~~ember-cli blueprint~~
    - Release blog post - ??
    - ~~Update-after-consumption assertion - CHG~~
    - ~~@glimmer/component@1.0.0 - RJ / CHG / TD?~~
    - Non-blocking issues
        - addon communique - YK (steering)
        - component manager version issue - RJ
        - observer polyfill
        - setComponentTemplate polyfill
- RFCs
    - → FCP
        - `[getWithDefault` Deprecation](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/554)
    - FCP → Merge
        - replacement for `setEdition` - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/558](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/558)
    - → FCP to Close
    - FCP to Close → Close
    - Enable

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz
- [ ]  Tom Dale
- [x]  Kris Selden
- [ ]  Leah Silber
- [x]  Robert Jackson
- [x]  Igor Terzic
- [x]  Matthew Beale
- [x]  Edward Faulkner
- [ ]  Dan Gebhardt
- [x]  Godfrey Chan
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes
- [ ]  Chad Hietala
- [x]  Katie Gengler
- [x]  Melanie Sumner
- [ ]  Jen Weber
- [x]  Chris Garrett

## Minutes

### Octane Checkin

RJ: Checkin since we are mid-release.

RJ: Linting. The current set of default Octane config guides you to using Octane things. If you use action you should use on for example. But I get confused since we tell people they can update without seeing the linting error.

(discussion)

RJ: If you have a template which fails lint and you fix it you can remove it from the pending list. The original reason I added the pending list was because people had templates already and were adding linting.

RJ: It doesn't sound like people are worried about the linting config

(discussion, can we use ember-cli-upgrade to build the lint list)

YK: I think we want to encourage ember-cli-upgrade.

(discussion, three cases to talk about for adoption. New users, upgrade and move to Octane, upgrade and do not)

- [ ]  Matt should mention all three in the blog post for 3.15

GC: Inspector update. Most things being reported are for things which were already failings.

(discussion, GC is not bullish on inspector but thinks the test refactor will be done in the short-term timeframe)

GC: There are some performance issues, it isn't fast to serialize the whole tree on every render.

(discussion, issues)

RJ: Apps which want co-location can just use it now, regardless of Octane. As of 3.13 Ember CLI you can use co-located templates, you just need the latest version of ember-cli-htmlbars.

RJ: Octanify. I have been working on this. I'm going to add the template lint thing as well, but want to get a release of what we have first.

RJ: Ember template lint which we talked about. We have had releases. 1.12.0ish has the config and is what Ember CLI's blueprints are using for 3.15.

RJ: Skipping some items since they are crossed off.

RJ: So blog post.

YK: I will have a draft this evening for an Octane post. I've been filling out a draft incrementally since yesterday. I've been retooling based on the all hands.

YK: Basically idea is to mostly link out to existing materials. The main ways I am thinking about new information is high level what is Octane and how to think about upgrading at a high level.

(discussion what upgrade steps should go into the release post vs. Octane post)

RJ: I'll pester IT to get ember data out

IT: It should be out this afternoon

RJ: I made all the changes we wanted to make to template lint. It is in the latest best of Ember CLI 3.15, I think beta3. There have been a number of issues. I've used super rentals to smoke test. I'm trying to land the PR that migrate it to using Ember's blueprint. I would like the preview URL to have as close to the final content as possible before the weekend. Blueprint is done, please test it and complain to me if there are issues.

RJ: Kelly S also said it works well with ember-cli-update

RJ: Addon communique.

YK: I can do it next week maybe.

KG: I can write it and maybe you all can add input after I get it put together.

YK: That would be great, there is also content which should be in there for ember observer changes.

RJ: I think next week looks good then. There are a few RFCs

### setEdition RFC

RJ: This has to land before 3.15. There have been no additional comments. There is a minor clarification in alternatives, but it is just a tweak for completeness. Unlike the normal process we landed these changes in the edition utils and CLI in the beta cycles. Normally we wouldn't do it but we wanted to be ready in this case.

RJ: To remind folks this is adding an ember property to the package.json which specifies the edition.

(discussion)

(consensus to merge)

### getWithDefault

RJ: We talked about this last time at the end of time. I suggest moving it to FCP. We have included prose two alternatives syntax-wise. Those sections have examples for what to do for each case.

RJ: The RFC suggests writing an if. It doesn't tell you to use the quick alternatives. The safe thing to codemod to is an if comparing to `undefined`. The proposed codemod is basically what we are doing.

(discussion, defaulting)

JW: Is there an action item to make sure YK's thoughts are reflected or baked into the RFC?

RJ: The way this is written the transition section is already the deprecation guide content.

JW: I'm not sure I understand the trap/problem yet. It someone can review and make sure it is clear on the RFC.

RJ: I think the main flow will be that someone sees the deprecation and goes to the guide and can use a codemod that does the simplest thing.

(discussion)

JW: I'm reading the RFC as written. And I don't think it is clearly stating what the correct thing to do is.

(discussion)

RJ: I will talk to Chris and we can talk about this again next week

### Glimmer VM

CG: The upgrade is almost done!

RJ: Master is 3.17. So the idea is to land it soon it can have a long time on master before beta

RJ: We should have it throw an error if you use named blocks syntax. As an AST transform. We should decouple the risk of the new feature from getting the upgrade in.