# @Dec 06, 2019

## Agenda

- (**20 min**) Octane Checkin
    - Inspector support - GC
    - replacement for `setEdition` - RJ
        - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/558](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/558)
    - colocation caching - RJ
    - octanify - RJ
    - ember-template-lint@2.0.0 stable - RJ
        - Just needs release
    - Octane Guides / ~~Component Guides~~ - JW / YK / CHG
    - ~~Glimmer API Docs~~
    - Release blog post - ??
    - ~~Update-after-consumption assertion - CHG~~
    - @glimmer/component@1.0.0 - RJ / CHG / TD?
        - Just needs release
    - Non-blocking issues
        - addon communique - YK (steering)
        - component manager version issue - RJ
        - observer polyfill
        - setComponentTemplate polyfill

- (? min) [https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/14875](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/14875)
- operators RFC comment: [https://gist.github.com/mixonic/eae274da225f41af79e298b5b8bbbf8c](https://gist.github.com/mixonic/eae274da225f41af79e298b5b8bbbf8c) - MB
- RFCs
    - → FCP
        - [`getWithDefault` Deprecation](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/554)
    - FCP → Merge
    - → FCP to Close
    - FCP to Close → Close
        - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/183](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/183)
    - Enable

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz
- [ ]  Tom Dale
- [x]  Kris Selden
- [ ]  Leah Silber
- [x]  Robert Jackson
- [x]  Igor Terzic
- [x]  Matthew Beale
- [x]  Edward Faulkner
- [x]  Dan Gebhardt
- [x]  Godfrey Chan
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes
- [ ]  Chad Hietala
- [x]  Katie Gengler
- [x]  Melanie Sumner
- [x]  Jen Weber
- [x]  Chris Garrett

## Minutes

### Octane Check-in

RJ: We discussed all this at the recent Octane checkin meeting. Octane strike team think we are good to go for 3.15. Warp speed. Engage.

RJ: But lets go through it.

RJ: At the meeting Tuesday GC says much of the work is done, he feels strongly we can have it ready for the blog post. It is not all merged because we are waiting on testing, but we should be able to merge with the release post.

GC: The branch has the latest changes. Finished the refactor. There are minor UX tweaks wrt what should happen when you click on whatever. But it is ready. There are some tests that need to be rewritten b/c they were relying on internals. At worst we would drop the tests and get to them after. I have talked to Robert as well.

RJ: Next `setEdition`. I did the RFC. RFC #558. The majority of people complaining before are now supportive. I have a little back and forth about various alternatives.

(aside on `.ember-cli` file alternative)

RJ: Kicker to me was realizing if you put it in `package.json` it already works well with ember-try etc.

KG: Actually when it was an ENV variable you had the same capability.

RJ: Yes. But the ENV var itself we wanted to be private, so we were in a weird place telling people to put the "private" ENV variable into the ember-try.

KG: Oh I mean way before.

RJ: Right. I'd like us to FCP this RFC. It is afaict exactly what we talked about.

(some summary)

RJ: Also I have branches of Ember Data, Ember CLI etc. We will support the old version for a while since people have been telling people to use it for a while.

(discussion about deprecating the old thing, it will be deprecated through the next stable)

Consensus to FCP. RJ did a lot of legwork so there is already a lot of community approval on the PR.

RJ: Colocation caching. I was just reviewing the details with Stef which means it will ship later today or tomorrow depending on when we get review. It will be out before Monday. Same is true of Octanify. I've been working with frozenfire. He got the tests working. I will merge and release soon.

RJ: I'm also going to add the fixup for the `setEdition` thing.

RJ: Octanify. We got some more stuff like optionally adding JS for all templates.

RJ: template lint. We're ready to release 2.0 stable. Until now the Octane version has been pretty actively churning, but in 2.0 we will make it recommended and refocus on the quality of the rules instead of what rules exist.

(discussion mjs, index module path change)

(wow, people should probably go read up on the node module plan for mjs)

RJ: Octane guides.

YK: I spent the last few weeks on it. I got a decent amount of feedback from several places and incorporated much of it. Chris did a big overhaul in the beginning period but it ended up being very helpful. I was stalled on looping and he also helped open up that.

YK: In terms of mechanics I need to un-delete some files I dropped just for build speed.

YK: To the extent that people have tweaks etc this is not public API and we can simply iterate. For example there are some further comments on the PR that I think are good but not blockers.

JW: Yeah I think we should get it merged ASAP into the Octane branch. If we can nail it down today or Saturday that would be great.

CG: Yeah I can work on that today / tomorrow.

YK: Great.

CG: I agree the content is basically there and we just need to rearrange.

RJ: To clarify that is just component guides, what about the rest of the Octane branch?

CG: I think this is part of the reconciliation process. There are some "todo add link" things. I will go through it all and make sure we have nothing redundant etc.

YK: GC had some places where upgrade material should be merged, I will go through it with CG. I think we should continue to iterate on it after Octane.

JW: Yeah typically the guides have had inertia, but we should continue to be bold and raise the bar.

RJ: So in terms of this as a release/decision blocker am I correct in saying it is fine and we can ship at 3.15?

JW, YK: yeah

JW: Probably not Monday, but yes.

RJ: ember-source will probably ship Monday, but the whole release process will take the whole week probably.

YK: I think everything is mechanical now.

GC: I also need to move URLs for the tutorial. I will try to do it before the Octane branch.

JW: It is was better if you do it before so we can avoid a large redirect file.

GC: Merging to master is release right (yes)? Ok. I may need to manually edit the generated files, (discussion)

RJ: We crossed off Glimmer API docs but I think that was because @glimmer/component is now in the docs and that means we're fine for any other update.

RJ: Glimmer component itself needs a 1.0. CG that also means glimmer/tracking?

CG: Yes they both do, but it is a monorepo.

RJ: Consumers aren't having issues with the last beta. I think we are good to go. I'll do this before Octanify.

RJ: I'll ping TD as well since he wanted to write a migration guide for glimmer JS users. I don't want to make it a blocker though. I think it is fine for us to add changelog documentation etc.

### Non-blocking

RJ: Addon communique.

YK: We see a lot of addons adopting Glimmer APIs and dropping support for pre-octane.

RJ: What does this mean? they use tracked properties or co-location?

YK: Yes and I am just saying what others have said

EF: A good example is that ember power select uses tracked

YK: Can we polyfill tracked?

YK: Wait to regroup: We cannot stop anyone from doing this, but it is a contradiction with our ecosystem policies. We want them to support LTSs. So we should say something to addon authors about what the expectation is without moralizing.

YK: I think saying power select 3.x is supported but is for pre-Octane that is ok. But it is likely they just didn't say explicitly that 3.x is supported.

RJ: To the other question re: polyfilling tracked. I think it is really hard, but maybe possible with caveats. It would involve changing `get` etc.

(discussion about the viability)

RJ: We've talked about it but have no time. Two other things I think are more important. The polyfill for addObserver to support async stuff, it won't be exactly the same but it will be good enough. The other one I think is important is setComponentTemplate API which would let you write addons that use that or co-location.

YK: What does it do?

RJ: Maybe just layout on the class for Ember components, for glimmer components it will do a thing. I have a plan.

RJ: CG and I talked about the component manager versioning recently. I think we can do it after Octane dust has settled. The rough tldr is that when someone depends on glimmer component they will get the version they want, but in the near term they should just peerdep. But in the future you will get the version you depend on.

CG: There is also an issue with ember cli dependency lint, the one that prevents multiple versions.

RJ: Right, but that lib has exemptions for some libraries known to work properly, for example ember-cli-babel

EF: I think in the long term you want the peer dep

RJ: I don't think so, I can go over it later.

(discussion)

RJ: Release blog post outline

JW: Yeah. Basically I want to get us thinking about what kind of content we want to include in the blog post and get firm answers about who will take a stab at the first draft. My goal was just to get started.

YK: I think I will volunteer to write it.

JW: I feel like this could use a voice to tell a story here.

(discussion)

RJ: Ok anyone want to block 3.15 as Octane? No? Ok!

RJ: Learning team probably has the most actual things to get done. That is my guess. CLI, Data, source will all have updates together to deal with the `setEdition` stuff.

YK: I'm realizing another good reason for a distinct Octane post is that we will want to link to it from 3.16 LTS

JW: Do TS people need anything?

RJ: Nothing specific

RJ: Next question, do we mention/announce to people? Any hesitation?

(discussion, please don't tweet out that we are going to release Octane as 3.15)

### Bug

RJ: Hm I would like to punt, but I think this has been said many times about this bug.

(discussion wrt triage)

### Operators RFC Comment

RJ: I will review, this looks good.

(discussion)

Feedback that the logical operators RFC should enumerate what truthiness currently does in HBS