# Jul 24, 2020

## Agenda

- (public) (10-15min) discuss next steps for `...attributes` [https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/19026](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/19026) (MS)
- (public) (2 min) FastBoot Meetings (RJ)
- (public) (5 min) FCP → Merge - [Replace terms blacklist & whitelist](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/639)
- (public) (10 min) RFC Intro + Discuss: [Deprecation Staging](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/649)
- (public) (2 min) Steering → @Yehuda Katz + @Robert Jackson
- (public) (10 min) Discuss RFC: [Provide access to template invocation stack in debug builds](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/643)

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz (YK)
- [x]  Tom Dale (TD)
- [ ]  Kris Selden (KS)
- [ ]  Leah Silber (LS)
- [x]  Robert Jackson (RJ)
- [ ]  Igor Terzic (IT)
- [x]  Matthew Beale (MB)
- [x]  Edward Faulkner (EF)

- [x]  Dan Gebhardt (DG)
- [x]  Godfrey Chan (GC)
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes (RM)
- [ ]  Chad Hietala (CH)
- [x]  Katie Gengler (KG)
- [x]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [ ]  Jen Weber (JW)
- [x]  Chris Garrett (CG)


## Minutes

### Discuss next steps for ...attributes

MS: Back in december Yehuda said that if we didn't have a new solution for splattributes by January, we could add aria-attributes to ...attributes. It's July, we don't have a new solution, and if we change anything it'll be a breaking change. Wanted to bring up this issue so we can address it, even if it's a won't fix.

YK: I don't think it's a possibility we won't fix it.

MS: What do we want to do about it?

YK: My basic feeling is that we really need to say what the merging logic is, and it should be based on what the spec says is going on. In a perfect world, we would do the props vs. attributes thing, and we would list all the spec-attributes and define merging behaviors for spec attributes. I think we would want to treat list attributes differently. Also something about booleans.

RJ: Don't class attributes normalize class lists... (missed)

TD: We compile it down to.. (missed)

YK: I personally was involved in the class-list spec, and it was important that it was a list. Order matters here, it's not a set. Class list is an ordered set with replace.

GC: Does order matter?
MS: It matters based on the order you have in the CSS file.

GC: Right, but not order in usage

YK: My feeling now having done the research is I think the scope of the request is attributes that claim to be list-like in the spec should be merged (and we should make a call on some edge cases). We do need to figure out if they're sets or lists, but they should be merged.

RJ: Totally agree. It's not a simple change though, we can't simply make it merged, because it is a breaking change. We need to rationalize it. Currently users duplicate it themselves, which would result in it being read twice by screen readers for instance, so definitely breaking.

YK: I want to be mindful about Melanie wanting a solution soon, but also mindful that it's a breaking change. Should we bundle this together with larger changes for props vs attributes?

RJ: We should move forward with an RFC. Breakage can be ok, we just need to discuss that in an RFC.

MS: I would like us to handle this in the same way as all other breaking changes, wait until next major.

YK: The perfect world is props vs. attrs RFC, and merging should be part of that

RJ: Agree, in general, regardless of what we do in 3.0. It's complicated. Sometimes you want clobbering, sometimes you don't. We need some way to specify this.

YK: Is that a blocker? Or future proofing?

RJ: Future proofing. I don't think we need to solve it before landing attrs-first-vs-props-first RFC.

YK: Seems like we have consensus to try to fix this for 4.0, but not land it in 3.0. Attribute first should define what attributes are attributes, and define what they do. We would have some transition path between now and 4.0, try to find the cases we have to deprecate and deprecate them, and in 4.0 you would get the new behavior.

RJ: Generally we don't do breaking changes without deprecations and non-breaking path forward, so how can we do it?

YK: For the merging thing, I think the good news is there is no merging now, and it doesn't affect a ton of users, only if you were using aria attributes, so we could do a dynamic check to identify scenarios (...missed)

YK: We could try to add a new syntax (for what? Missed)

RJ: Yeah, I just want to make sure we have a path forward. People should be able to author a template that works the same in both 3.x and 4.x

YK: I do think it's important that only people who are affected are people who have aria-describe-by on both sides. And if most people prefer clobbering, then maybe we are wrong about merging.

RJ: We need to be sensitive to the fact that people who fall into these category are often marginalized in this process

YK: Worried that addons could add describeby directly

RJ: Could also make a custom/built-in modifier

GC: I find it suspicious that we think we can away with implementing merging and that's it, I think we need that ability, agree, but think it's suspicious for even 90% of cases.

RJ: Imagine you took i18n strings and chopped them up into 1 word increments and just use that everywhere. Probably wouldn't work.

MS: I've never seen anyone who's done i18n do that

RJ: Exactly. Similarly, if you are trying to describe something with describeby, likely concatting directly isn't going to produce proper output.

YK: I'm going to take action item to google React threads.

YK: The same reason we want to merge a class applies here, I think, and we need to figure out what the defaults for merging are and what the opt-in and opt-out is.

RJ: (..missed)

GC: I don't see the connection between props and attrs

...missed

YK: Right now we have another case is booleans. We currently assume if you give us `false`, us the boolean rules for attributes. Could do something like that with arrays.

GC: Without a lot of context, if value is a list and the idea is that we always merge, I'm still skeptical. Not sure why it worked so well for `class`.

YK: I think it works well for classes because it's a scenario solve, and it would also work well for `style`. Don't disagree that it can't be general.

...missed

YK: I think we need to do a full analysis

GC: Yes, I think we should, but I presume we can't do it automatically based on type. We need to expose a way for users to do it themselves.

...missed

GC: Currently the component author has full control. They can allow/disallow usage of specific attributes, thanks to clobbering. We should be very careful if we were to take that away.

DG: A few points 1. I think we should add a flag to log clobbering when it occurs so we can explore it more thoroughly 2. seems very similar to our discussion around splarguments, we should probably not try to get a quick win with a micro syntax, and instead do something much more general (like plucking individual attributes).

YK: Action item - someone needs to write an RFC

- [ ]  Explore what other projects are doing @Yehuda Katz
- [ ]  Write an RFC to add merging expressiveness to the template syntax in the 3.x series (@Yehuda Katz and @Robert Jackson should work on making a strike team)
- [ ]  Write an RFC to transition to attributes-first to target 4.0 (not a blocker, only tangentially related) @Yehuda Katz and @Robert Jackson should discuss timing, and whether we want to roll this in the previous strike team

### Fastboot Meetings

RJ: We started up fastboot meetings, happy to add anyone who wants to attend. Currently working through a few things like getting the repos up and easy to work with, and will be also focusing on broader topics like using worker threads. If you're interested, let me know.

### FCP → Merge - [Replace terms blacklist & whitelist](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/639)

RJ: No new comments that change anything. Only thing is allowlist/disallowlist will both show up for search results, but not a huge deal.

RJ: Merge?

<No objections>

### RFC Intro + Discuss: [Deprecation Staging](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/649)

RJ: Introducing the RFC, this is the output item from the deprecation staging strike team.

YK: In steering committee both this and RFC Stages came up, and I wanted to make the point that RJ and I are on the same page.

RJ: Yes, maybe not for some small nuanced details, but for the large broad strokes.

...missed

### Discuss RFC: [Provide access to template invocation stack in debug builds](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/643)

RJ: Had a conversation with Luke in Discord about this. There are lots of things internally that use the invocation stack for logging errors, it would be good expose the ability for addons to be able to use it to give users better error messages
