# May 15, 2020

## Agenda

- (**15 min**) Template teaching in the Guides (RM)
- (5 min) SFC vs Frontmatter Case Study At LinkedIn (CH)
    - Just want to see if people would like to hear about some feedback we've gotten about both formats at LinkedIn
- RFCs
    - → FCP
        - Helper Managers: [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/625](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/625)
    - FCP → Merge
        - [v2 Addon Format / Embroider](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/507) - EF
    - Triage
        - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/321](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/321)
        - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/323](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/323)
        - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/79](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/79)
        - LinkTo
            - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/230](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/230)
            - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/267](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/267)
            - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/501](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/501)
        - optional segments
            - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/205](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/205/files)
            - [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/36](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/36)

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz (YK)
- [ ]  Tom Dale (TD)
- [x]  Kris Selden (KS)
- [ ]  Leah Silber (LS)
- [x]  Robert Jackson (RJ)
- [x]  Igor Terzic (IT)
- [x]  Matthew Beale (MB)
- [x]  Edward Faulkner (EF)
- [ ]  Dan Gebhardt (DG)
- [x]  Godfrey Chan (GC)
- [x]  Ricardo Mendes (RM)
- [x]  Chad Hietala (CH)
- [ ]  Katie Gengler (KG)
- [ ]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [ ]  Jen Weber (JW)
- [x]  Chris Garrett (CG)

## Minutes

### Template teaching in the guides

RM: I put this on the agenda from a prior meeting.

YK: I think there is some sentiment that when I did the new guides I basically eliminated the concept of a template as a discrete unit. I just didn't bother to make the template and component distinct for new learners. I think what RM was raising is that there is a template programming language... He thinks we under-teach the programming logic of the templates.

YK: I don't want us to re-separate it because teaching components in isolation isn't very useful. I don't see the use in teaching template there are no JavaScript values flowing at all.

YK: I don't think the result is a split/merge, it is maybe just new content in the early chapters.

RM: There is uncertain where to document template concepts. I don't think the community things of "templates" as part of components, and so they can't find them in the guides.

(discussion)

YK: I think using template concepts in the search would be helpful. You can't type {{if in search and have it come up.

YK: If this is unintuitive we should change the approach, but I do think it is reasonable. I think the search thing is a real issue.

(discussion, search)

### SFC v. Frontmatter

CH: I don't have anything to present. I could make one, however people want the feedback. The project I've been working on over a few months has been largely SSR. We started off working with glimmer templates with the frontmatter. Then we moved to a SFC format. Do we want to talk about this?

(yes)

RJ: I think a gist of examples with syntax, general usage patterns, would be good. It is hard for me to imagine code patterns. Having something to stare at would be helpful.

### FCP: Helper manager

RJ: I think this is ready. CHG made changes based on our discussions and I think it is now stated nicely.

YK: I also have no objections. I think we should be flexible with the timing of the new scheduling APIs.

RJ: There are a few points where the new RFC is intentionally more restrictive, but there are features you might imagine wanting that you are limited in today. We can add those capabilities later, but we can't do the inverse. I think this is good design.

YK: I think there is a caveat for "it does everything from ember helper"

(discussion)

RJ: One other thing which was not a change, but came up yesterday and was updated: The prose states now that runEffect is not run in SSR. That is primarily because it is difficult... if you have already rendered and you have the rendered output you should just send it to the client. But also it is hard to expect what kinds of things you want to do in effects in SSR.

RJ: I'm also thinking about how modifiers can also be this same thing.

YK: I actually strongly agree. We need to have an RFC which is an SSR env, and it tells you want simpledom is, and if you are a modifier you get the simpledom and you look to that.

RJ: There is a non-trivial question in my mind if we should try for string-based render, which would make simpledom difficult.

(discussion)

YK: The cases when you want to full simpledom is when you are doing something async and want to clean something up. I think we need a strike team

RJ: The good thing about runEffect as here is that you can't modify tags at all, so you don't need to worry about mutations messing up opcodes.

YK: I think the thing that is cool about this direction is that really the whole JS ecosystem doesn't have a spec for SSR but we are very close because we have been so strict.

RJ: I really like this Chris, the parts where you show how to re-implement helpers and other addons. Thanks for that.

RJ: We a go? We a go.

RJ: I think this can be polyfilled quite well.

### v2 Addon format

RJ: Last week we talked about it and basically decided to give it a week's time. I don't think there have been meaningful changes in the second round of feedback. I think it is good to go. Anyone opposed? Want to cover anything?

RJ: Ok we're a go sounds good to me!

### RFC triage

RM: I nominated these, and tried to pick quick "do we want to do these things" items.

RJ: First is key functions for each and each-in [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/321](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/321)

RJ: In general I am very much in favor of changing the behavior of `key=` as most people use it. I don't like the current system, if even because you pass a `keyPath` and not a key. Due to implementation it is not possible to pass a function which does the same thing. The proposal is to make `key` accept a function, which could be a helper or a function and it returns a key.

RJ: You could implement the identity system based on this.

RJ: I very much think this is a thing we should do. I need to read this for details.

YK: I think this is blocked on helpers as values.

RJ: I think taking a function or helper is fine.

YK: I think the answer to taking functions and helpers, we want it to work one way. This is somewhat entangled with the invoke helpers RFC and helpers as a values.

(discussion)