# Jun 26, 2020

## Agenda

- FCP for [Facilitate customization of setupTest* functions](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/637) (RJ / KG)
- Performance regression? (YK wants to know)
- When should our next virtual F2F be? (MS)
- It's nearly July...how are we doing on our goals for this year? What do we want to accomplish by next March? Do we have any explicit deliverables? (MS)

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz (YK)
- [ ]  Tom Dale (TD)
- [x]  Kris Selden (KS)
- [ ]  Leah Silber (LS)
- [ ]  Robert Jackson (RJ)
- [x]  Igor Terzic (IT)
- [ ]  Matthew Beale (MB)
- [x]  Edward Faulkner (EF)

- [x]  Dan Gebhardt (DG)
- [x]  Godfrey Chan (GC)
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes (RM)
- [ ]  Chad Hietala (CH)
- [x]  Katie Gengler (KG)
- [x]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [x]  Chris Garrett (CG)

## Action Items

- [ ]  FCP for [Facilitate customization of setupTest* functions](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/637) (KG)
- [ ]  MS and EF will meet to document TODOs for embroider

## Minutes

### FCP for [Facilitate customization of setupTest* functions](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/637) (RJ / KG)

- KG: This is an interim step that will unlock testing functionality in the short term.
- KG: There have just been a few clarifying questions.

*agreement to FCP*

### Performance regression? (YK)

- KS: I would not call this a macro-benchmark. We have an app that we are benchmarking. The app doesn't do much other than present a giant table of data.
- KS: We haven't seen many regressions up to 3.16, but there is a giant one since 3.16
- KS: When CHG does something impactful, he does regression testing. But at this point we need to go back to emberobserver to step between versions and benchmark.
- YK: Does this all mean that even if LI is not seeing regressions in their app?
- YK: I treat the LI "voyager" app benchmark as a pretty good measure of performance.
- KS: We could stand to have more variety in our benchmarks.
- KS: This is generally creating a bunch of FUD. People are saying things like "if I have to rewrite all my components entirely to glimmer components, why stay with ember".
- YK: I think it's "fine" to say that compatibility shims make things slightly slower. Every change has some positive and negative impacts. I think we should be careful to not over-rotate on this.
- EF: It sounds like we really need to handle this better in the GitHub issue.
- CHG: I have started to respond in the various threads on Discourse and Github.

*others should follow up on threads to clarify if needed*

### When should our next virtual F2F be? (MS)

- MS: Our March F2F occurred over a number of weeks, so it seems a little soon to think about having another.
- MS: Any objection to our next one being in September?

*no objection*

### It's nearly July...how are we doing on our goals for this year? What do we want to accomplish by next March? Do we have any explicit deliverables?

- YK: I've been working on some client memos related to my own goals and plans, and it's time to discuss further with the rest of the core team.
- YK: Many decisions seem to be blocked by embroider, and we really need to start discussing whether it's possible by March.
- DG: Progress on engines, or at least the build side, is blocked to a large degree on embroider.
- KG: Addon authors have really begun to start trying out embroider in the past couple months.
- YK: We should consider whether embroider should be an option when starting new ember projects.
- MS: Ed, do you have a concise list of remaining TODOs?
- EF: In my head, yes.
- MS: I can volunteer to work with you to help document those.
- GC: *Asks about addon authoring experience*
- EF: We did punt on a few things, such as how we configure apps, and we don't want to seal off the configurability. I explicitly didn't want to block off adoption of embroider based on a new project structure. App tree merging is by far the largest problem we need to tackle.
- YK: In terms of March, what is the high level pitch? One thing we want to say is that route-based code-splitting can work.
- MS: We want to do the work in time for talks to be prepared for March.
- GC: I think for this reason, it's not realistic for there to be a new edition by March.
- YK: Editions serve a marketing purpose and an opportunity to clear up incoherence. I think you're probably 80% right about this GC.
- MS: I'd like to have that discussion (re: editions) separately.
- YK: It's possible that a lot of things will land and we will want to have a coherence checkpoint.
- GC: In terms of the build work - yes, we should land it ASAP. But in terms of having an edition, which is about the authoring experience, then that will need to wait for coherence.
- EF: The goal with embroider is to get to the point of turning on the flag so that it's in the release.
- YK: Every time we go down this path, no matter how unstable we say something is, people will look for any signals they can find regarding stability.
- MS: What does an "Insider edition" look like in open source? It's explicitly for use in only a few scenarios.
- *Discussion about action items, including the importance of strict mode templates*
- CG: I'm going to be working on strict mode next quarter.
- EF: [Request for Glimmer] Let me import a component in the JS side.
- YK: We need the helper helper and modifier helper.
- CG: Bundling together imports into the build edition makes quite a bit of sense.
- YK: I'm seeing the next edition as a "Snow Leopard" like edition that has minor improvements on the Octane programming model. And the build-focused edition would be more significant, and would be the following edition.
- YK: I think we should check where we're at in a couple months.
- MS: I think we all want to hold loosely onto the concept of whether there will be a new edition and that we can have that discussion later.
- MS: Ok, let's focus on getting things written down for now.
- MS: There won't be a meeting next week due to the holiday. See you in 2 weeks.
