# Jun 19, 2020

## Agenda

- (5 min) What's the plan for [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/507#discussion_r418910747](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/507#discussion_r418910747)? (GC)
- (10 min) Outcome/next-steps for ember-inspector meeting (GC)
- (10 min) How to communicate status of polyfills (YK)
- (5 min) Agenda stuff (RJ)
- RFCs
    - FCP â†’ Merge
        - `invokeHelper`
    - Discussion
        - Replace terms whitelist & blacklist ([https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/639](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/639)) (CHG)
- (late-addition) (10 min) Why do we use templates? (user question) (CHG)

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz (YK)
- [ ]  Tom Dale (TD)
- [x]  Kris Selden (KS)
- [ ]  Leah Silber (LS)
- [x]  Robert Jackson (RJ)
- [x]  Igor Terzic (IT)
- [x]  Matthew Beale (MB)
- [x]  Edward Faulkner (EF)
- [x]  Dan Gebhardt (DG)
- [x]  Godfrey Chan (GC)
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes (RM)
- [ ]  Chad Hietala (CH)
- [x]  Katie Gengler (KG)
- [x]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [ ]  Jen Weber (JW)
- [x]  Chris Garrett (CG)

## Minutes

GC: Questions RE: addon v2 format. In general, I've had to use a `prepublish` script a number of times, and it is not clear what hooks run in what time frames. I think this is becoming a large problem. 

[https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/507#discussion_r418910747](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/507#discussion_r418910747)

YK: Have you seen the chart that the pnpm folks have put together? It really has a grid showing what hooks run in what order, etc.

GC: No, I haven't, but I think we really need to find a solution here.

RJ: We really need to have a concrete list of constraints that we care about. 

GC: Recently, I was digging into ember-cli-typescript and it seemed that they use `prepublishOnly` . Which IMHO, that seems fundamentally wrong, but when I suggested `prepare` the team indicated that having to do a build after each `yarn install` / `npm install` is a non-starter.

RJ: I really think that `prepare` is the right choice here.

GC: I may have been testing wrong, but when I tested it didn't seem that `prepare` was running in all cases that I expected it to.

EF: How many of our core libs have the ability to use from GH directly?

RJ/YK: Very few.

EF: Right, so I'm not sure this is actually a fundamental constraint that we have today.

GC: Sure, but given that addons *largely* have this capability today moving to embroider v2 format it would be super unfortunate if we lost the ability to reference directly from GitHub.

RJ: Again, I think that we should probably list out the constraints and then figure out how to solve for them.

EF: In general, what we are doing *is* following the "normal JavaScript ecosystem" (where this isn't a "solved" problem)

....discussion....

### Outcome/next-steps for ember-inspector meeting

GC: I already mentioned this briefly in the chat last week, but basically we are having semi-regular meetings for the Ember inspector. Folks that would like to be on the invite please ping me. The first meeting that we had was largely focused on:

- adding new features for ember-data users directly in the inspector
- making the ember-debug code/functionality easier to re-use etc
- adding a better mechanism for official debugging without using the ember inspector (in the long run, everything you can do with the inspector UI should be doable with the package, e.g. `$edb.getOwners()`)

IT: We are experimenting with having a new data pane in the ember inspector

YK: I should attend. The current data setup is very bad unless we're coupling to Ember Data. There is an alternative where you just have tables you hand them to the inspector and it shows them.

IT: There is another effort to fix the database pane in general, but we're also looking at additions around the networking layer and other things.

YK: I will try to attend the meeting, but I hope that as the data pane is refactored that it would be somewhat genericized to support arbitrary data sources (right now its highly focused on ember-data). I think there may be an easier implementation that could work out...

RJ: Just to point out that the goal of the ember-inspector is to be *actually* useful to our users. And it is fine if it were a "big tent" approach, accepting additions that make things nicer for users of common addons is totally fine. We don't really have a size constraint, etc, so it doesn't hurt to bake in more support as needed.

...discussion...

### Agenda stuff

RJ: My suggestion here is that we remove the RFC section. Then we return to a bulleted list of prioritized items.

(discussion)

### Polyfil status proposal

YK: It is common for a feature to get a polyfill. They aren't always maintained by the Ember team.

### How to communicate status of polyfills

YK: I worry about the status of some of the polyfills that exist. I've been running into a number of issues with them, and it seems that we should probably have a bit more formality around the polyfills that exist. For example, many polyfills don't ship with types. 

RJ: Well in this case no official Ember package ships types. This doesn't really seem like a thing to work on here.

GC: Do you have any examples that are not related to TypeScript? I feel that the type related issues seem a bit odd to address without addressing TS more broadly.

YK: No it isn't only types, but that was a large issue.

MS: OK, so why don't we move forward with making a policy?

RJ: rude flippant remark

...