# @Nov 15, 2019

## Agenda

- Octane?
- Inspector CI publishing
- RFCs
    - → FCP
    - FCP → Merge
    - → FCP to Close
    - FCP to Close → Close
    - Enable

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz
- [ ]  Tom Dale
- [x]  Kris Selden
- [ ]  Leah Silber
- [x]  Robert Jackson
- [x]  Igor Terzic
- [x]  Matthew Beale
- [ ]  Edward Faulkner
- [ ]  Dan Gebhardt
- [x]  Godfrey Chan
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes
- [x]  Chad Hietala
- [x]  Katie Gengler
- [x]  Melanie Sumner
- [x]  Jen Weber
- [x]  Chris Garrett

## Minutes

### Octane

- RJ: 3.14 is out, 3.15-beta is out. We need to decide when to put the Octane work back into CLI. Inspector work is proceeding and the codebase is getting tuned up. How is debug render tree going?
- GC: need to circle up with Robert Wagner about what to do next. The end is in sight for the other refactor. Seems bounded to me.
- RJ: Other than template name, are there other things missing?
- GC: Figuring it out as I go, sending PRs to either Inspector or Ember. I think it's pretty close and I'm pretty happy with the state of things.
- RJ: I am completing caching stuff for co-location and drafting an RFC for setEdition. Hopefully we can decide if enough ducks are in a row for us to be ready to declare the edition.
- GC: There's also octanify to work on
- RJ: There's an open PR by frozenfire that runs the migration utilities. The only issue right now is that since the command spawns another command with prompts, testing is hard.
- GC: still some things to do on docs front
- RJ: codemods are proceeding nicely

### 3.14

RJ: Ember CLI just went out this morning, DG has a draft on it, he posted in meta.

JW: Week of Dec 9th is the 3.15 release week then.

### 3.15 Octane

RJ: What does it take to decide that 3.15 is Octane?

GC: Inspector, Octanify, Co-location, caching, and probably finalizing the documentation/guides.

JW: I have a couple status updates. CG and I worked on Glimmer API docs. We have one more thing then we are ready to consider it MVP. In terms of the guides stuff I don't want to be waiting for the week before 3.15 to review big changes so as much as possible if we can try to get the component stuff even in an incrementally shipping state that would help.

YK: Chris took it over for a few days and cleaned up the example. I'll commit to getting it into that incremental state soon.

CG: I think the pages that are written are solid right now. If we can get the rest of the pages even just outlined I could do polish then someone else can do polish again.

YK: I think the pages I wrote were not in a reviewable state before CG looked, now they are. I think learning people can review it now for sure.

JW: I am interested in seeing if we can get it up on Octane guides preview very soon then continue to work on it against the Octane branch for a while.

(commentary)

JW: There was some instability in the API docs that seems to be back together now. As far as I know there is no huge problem with parsing decorators or any of that. So I think we're in an OK state for that to continue to work.

JW: Siva is working on a replacement parser and app for API docs. I asked for an update when he is ready. We should make sure he is building something that aligns with our needs in the future.

JW: For example current docs doesn't work well with things coming from real packages. He is aligning with that for instance but we should make sure we are aligned on other items. It would be nice if there was an opportunity for him to pop into our meeting or set another time when it is procedurally appropriate.

RJ: I'll suggest a dedicated meeting, he will have timezone challenges anyway. I would love to have a walkthrough, or just have a few people interested dig in and hear about the architecture.

### Back to the Octane 3.15 requirements

RJ: Inspector, colocation & caching, octanify, guides being ready.

JW: Glimmer docs need to get merged.

RJ: I have that open in a tab to review.

JW: The release blog post, we should not wait too long to do that.

KG: Is there stuff that isn't a blocker but needs to be done? For example Ember Observer having "octane ready" or IDEs etc

RJ: I have a list of linters etc, and a few interested/active people.

JW: we talked about guidance for addon authors to make their addons Octane-happy. I think it could go into Octane guides.

RJ: There are a few things we should concretely do. The things we have to do for ember observer it would be good to do for apps in general. Do you have observers, do you use jQuery, make sure you don't have template-only components as an addon author. We can plausibly add... the octanify command could have a —check for example. And I assume observer will want to automate this.

RJ: The problem with a try config is that you need to detect things with nuance, and I think you want to sometimes just check optional features etc.

JW: One thing missing here.. I know Chris you were working on Glimmer 1.0.

CG: Most are in. There are a few more to let people know if they are using types or...

RJ: There are a few APIs that exist in the types which don't exist in Ember apps, but they are not available in Ember.

(discussion wrt Glimmer features vs Ember features, where the gaps are)

KS: So you can't write a cross-compatible components yet

RJ: Right.

CG: I think we can change it in Glimmerjs v2, and nothing will change for Ember users.

RJ: Other than a last PR I think the current component is fine for 1.0. We need to think about the versioning problem more.

MS: What is the problem?

RJ: If we plan to revise Glimmer Component.... we may need to ship both component managers for 1.0 and 2.0

(discussion)

### Inspector CI / publishing

GC: So it was very error prone to deploy/publish before. I think it now has its own set of problems. Maybe we should at least prune the people who have access to that repo.

GC: It used to be that to publish the inspector you have to pull the branch, build, npm publish, you get a bunch of zip files and go to the stores to upload the thing. Last week I automated it so you can just tag and push a tag and it goes out. The concern was that bc we are publishing a browser extension (it can steal your passwords etc) now that CI can do it it means anyone with push access to the repo can publish which seems bad so.

RJ: Sounds like the summary to me. Do you have a position?

GC: On balance I think it is still better for CI to do it. Today people can publish anything even not on the repo which is maybe worse. I don't think one is strictly better. In terms of convenience and eliminating mistakes I think the current system is better.

JW: I think it probably makes sense to tighten up the list as well.

GC: I think we can probably start tightening up the repo.

RJ: We can require signed commits

GC: It doesn't fully eliminate the risk.

YK: But you can shrink the access by....

(discussion of keys / CI / security)

**To-do for Octane release:**

Inspector support

replacement for `setEdition`

colocation caching

octanify

guides

Glimmer API Docs 

Release blog post

ember-template-lint@2.0.0 stable

@glimmer/component@1.0.0

component manager version issue