# @Nov 22, 2019

## Agenda

- ember-language-server and ember-language-server-unstable (RM)
- (**5 min**) [Backflow assertion updates](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/18554) (RJ)
- (**20 min**) Octane Checkin
    - Inspector support - GC
    - replacement for `setEdition` - RJ
    - colocation caching - RJ
    - octanify - RJ
    - ember-template-lint@2.0.0 stable - RJ
        - Just needs release
    - Octane Guides / ~~Component Guides~~ - JW / YK / CHG
    - ~~Glimmer API Docs~~
    - Release blog post - ??
    - ~~Update-after-consumption assertion - CHG~~
    - @glimmer/component@1.0.0 - RJ / CHG / TD?
        - Just needs release
    - Non-blocking issues
        - component manager version issue - RJ
        - observer polyfill
        - setComponentTemplate polyfill
- (**2 mins**) Need eyes on [https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/8593](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/8593) (got a DM about it) - MRS
- RFCs
    - → FCP
        - Deprecate `getWithDefault` [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/554](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/554) (RJ)
    - FCP → Merge
    - → FCP to Close
    - FCP to Close → Close
    - Enable

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz
- [ ]  Tom Dale
- [x]  Kris Selden
- [ ]  Leah Silber
- [x]  Robert Jackson
- [x]  Igor Terzic
- [x]  Matthew Beale
- [x]  Edward Faulkner
- [ ]  Dan Gebhardt
- [x]  Godfrey Chan
- [x]  Ricardo Mendes
- [ ]  Chad Hietala
- [x]  Katie Gengler
- [x]  Melanie Sumner
- [ ]  Jen Weber
- [x]  Chris Garrett

## Minutes

### Language server

CG: Some concern about the state of the language server work. There is a lot of feature work happening, but it seems to be coming at a stability cost.

CG: Chris Krycho can maybe put time toward it in Q1. But it is up in the air and we don't have anyone else actively working on it.

RJ: Why is this a problem, do we need to do anything? Is is confusing?

YK: The existing ELS appears to be very outdated and not maintained, but if you search for it in the VS code marketplace <???>

CG: There is intent that the unstable work will get landed upstream.

YK: The code seems fine as a spike

 RJ: I don't see the extensions are "official", there is no RFC, we have never discussed it, etc. Seems better for the community to maintain it.

GC: If we were to do anything "official", we should probably do something similar to the debug render tree where we ship some minimal primitive in ember (CLI?) that is CI-ed and have the community maintain the binding on the other side?

Action items:

- @Chris H Garrett to chat with lifeart + locks, and request that we maintain the status quo (fw core wants to do single file components for example which may mean churn, don't want to have you spin cycles unnecessarily). Also chat with Christ Krycho etc.
- @Yehuda Katz Steering committee need to do something about the ember.js "org" on VSCode marketplace and updating the readme to reflect (the lack of) octane support.
- Avoid making specific promises in this space. (specific claims on a project space)

### Backflow assertion

RJ: There were concerns it doesn't cover all cases of tracked we were concerned about. Now we track more cases, show more information in the stack trace. It is more information, but it also throws errors more aggressively.

YK: The big change here is that we moved the check deeper into the system, which means cases that previously slipped through the cracks are now caught.

RJ: Where we landed on the error message is massively better.

RJ: class based methods, compute helpers still only have deprecation warnings. We want them to be assertions eventually.

YK: This is part of more general work to improve errors messages.

RJ: It is all the in the current beta, will be in 3.15

Action items:

- Just a FYI

### Octane Checkin

**Inspector Support**

GC: I don't imagine a situation where this will be a blocker for release any more. I would love to have you use a test version of the inspector. and give feedback.

GC: On each commit there is already a file added to the repo that you can test with.

GC: I need feedback on classic and Octane apps. Some of this is implemented as a polyfill layer so code changed for all versions of Ember you might use this with.

(discussion wrt args to components being in the tree, seems likely for release)

**Set edition**

RJ: I will beg CG to help if we need this to land. We want to write the proposal as an RFC, but maybe it isn't actually an RFC.

RJ: The implementation is trivial, but the motivation and consensus is tricky.

**Colocation caching**

I have a WIP branch. I've been working with SP on catching the various edge cases. Should land this weekend.

**Octanify**

RJ: I am working with frozenfire doing really good work. I will likely land their PR today or tomorrow. Still needs a few more tests but it is close. It has been a lot of back and forth and I'm not sure if they still have time.

RJ: KG and I met this week and made a notion doc for what `octanify --check` to check for readiness might do. Run a linting plugin to look for observers, look for template only components, etc. Many of the things on the list are already implemented in one way or another, collating all the things will be a followup to the octanify command.

RJ: I think KG was also going to do some work in Ember Observer so the output could show up on the website.

RJ: We also want to note nice things you might do like native classes, just to say they are nice they are not required to be ready.

**ember-template-lint**

(discussion)

RJ: All reported issues for Octane things are completed or well in hand. Last items are "require angle bracket invocation rule", that is quite hard to know staticly from the template.

RJ: I think we settled on a good set of heuristics on when to consider an angle bracket appropriate. For example if an invocation uses positional params it cannot be an angle bracket.

(discussion of ambiguous cases)

**Octane Guides / Component Guides**

YK: I spent time this week going over changes from CG. I'm getting further feedback today.

YK: I think there is no real risk of not shipping because of this. There is a missing chapter on loops, a missing reference guide. I'm going to keep working then if I can't touch something use the old version as "advanced guides". I'm working with the learning team and they agree the component work is ready.

YK: I think there are 4 hours of bureaucratic work to get it in a shape it is good for PR etc.

GC: There is work updating links etc. for Octane guides.

YK: We should look at it next week. Evey time I look at it with you you identify more things in the busywork domain.

(discussion upgrade guide)

**Glimmer API docs**

RJ: They should go out with the next beta. This is adding basic API docs for glimmer/component. The next thing is release blog post. I do not have someone specifically assigned. One part is to do what we always do, but there is also some stuff wrt the first edition etc.

**Glimmer component 1.0**

RJ: We are ready to release it when we are ready for it.

RJ: We added nice error messages for using hooks which aren't in Ember etc.

CG: We also have type tests which will help us support typescript versions over time.

(discussion versioned typescript)

RJ: Ok, if people have other blocking issues note it here and I will copy this forward to next week.

RJ: As far as non-blockers: First the component manager versioning thing. I want us to solve it nicely though we don't *need* it until the next major change to that API.

RJ: async observer polyfill, setComponentTemplate polyfill.

### Eyes on [https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/8593](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/8593)

MS: I've gotten some DMs, want someone to give a comment

RJ: I think it just needs a rebase.

### Deprecate `getWithDefault`

RJ: proposal is basically to deprecate this and suggest people use the native JS thing

CG: Is nullish coalescing going to stage 4 at the next meeting?

RJ: I think that would make it easier, but even without it is still a good thing to do.

KS: I think a question is where is it used a lot. The chaining bits gets verbose and people like that they can do a long path and not worry about it at every level.

YK: I have a thing about nullish coalescing. It doesn't have the same falsy rules as normal in JS, so when people convert to it we need to think about it. You can't just use it as a drop in replacement for `||`. We need to think about what it means and do an audit.

RJ: `getWithDefault` has exactly the same semantics, so in this case...

CG: I think actually it is only `undefined`.

(discussion wrt `null` `undefined` and defaults)

Action items:

- Everyone: Help test the inspector
    - @Godfrey Chan will post instructions to fw-core discord
    - @Chris H Garrett will work with @Robert Jackson to land replacement for `setEdition`
    - @Robert Jackson will work with @Stefan Penner to land colocation caching
    - @Robert Jackson will work with @Katie Gengler and frozenfire on octanify
    - @Robert Jackson will
    - @Yehuda Katz will work with @Jen Weber and learning team to land component guides