# Learn Team Agenda 2019-01-10

## Topics
- Review last week‚Äôs action items (update weekly)
- Review Airtable tasks
- Consensus-based Leadership Review
- Angle Brackets Backport
- Deprecations App IDs issue(s) discovery
  - https://github.com/ember-learn/deprecation-app/pull/208
  - https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/blob/v1.13.0/packages/ember-runtime/lib/system/deferred.js#L7
- Moving Deprecations App into ember-website vs keeping it standalone (as subdomain)
  - https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-website/issues/119
  - ‚ÄúBy definition it will always be a legacy app‚Äù - Either Serena or Chris üòÇ
- Contributor Interviews for the Times
- Move to merge https://github.com/ember-learn/handbook/pull/11


## Action Items
[ ] Have a great day
[ ] Create an issue/project to track the Emberification of the website @real_ate
[ ] Continue Contribution Guides @jessica (still in work for next week: +Contribution Guides )
[ ] Document the fact that we do not tend to backport things into the handbook @real_ate
[ ] Chat about deprecations app location @real_ate @locks

## Attendees (Initials: Name @Discord)
[ ] DB: David Baker (@acorncom)
[x] TJ: Todd Jordan (@todd.jordan)
[x] JJ: Jessica Jordan (@jessica)
[ ] SK: Sivakumar Kailasam (@siva)
[x] AL: Amy Lam (@amyrlam)
[ ] TL: Terence Lee (@hone)
[x] CM: Chris Manson (@real_ate)
[x] RM: Ricardo Mendes (@locks)
[ ] LS: Leah Silber (@wifelette)
[x] MS: Melanie Sumner (@melsumner)
[ ] JW: Jen Weber (@jenweber)
[x] KL: Kenneth Larsen (@kennethlarsen)
[x] DM: Dan Monroe (@DanMonroe)
[x] TD: Tom Dale (@tomdale)
[x] DA: Danielle Adams (@danielle)
[x] CG: Chris Garrett


## Notes

### Consensus-based Leadership

MS: Consensus-based Leadership - it would be great to re-discuss the way we handle decisions as a team to have a shared understanding of what this means

TD: It‚Äôs about good faith and empowering each member to participate in the decision process in a meaningful way. See also [Allen Wirf Brock's paper on collaborative work](http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf). People can prevent a decision by using their veto

### Anglebrackets Syntax Backporting

KL: It would be useful to backport Anglebrackets syntax documentation in the Guides (e.g. back to 3.4 when the feature was released)

CM: We currently do not backport any new features since it‚Äôs a lot of work, but in the case of Anglebrackets syntax we were wondering if it‚Äôs significant enough of a change to try it out now

TD: It‚Äôs probably more about a process improvement that we need to take care of. Framework team needs to communicate with Learning team in advance so documentation lands together with the actual feature

MS: We shouldn‚Äôt backport and looking at the current todo list of the learning team, it‚Äôs not reasonable to take this one on

RM: We don‚Äôt necessarily need to backport now, but it would be useful to create an issue to do so in the future when there‚Äôs time and contributors available

TD: But what about current Guides? Should we cover Anglebrackets in these?

RM: So far it was difficult to make a decision about including the new syntax or not, because the how wasn‚Äôt agreed on yet

TD: The effort for backporting Anglebrackets is so great, that it‚Äôs difficult to try it out now

RM: Releasing Anglebracket syntax in the documentation now long after the actual release is confusing for those not too much involved in the community

### Deprecation App ID Issues

CM: Issue with the mapping of deprecation ids and links to the respective documentation. Deprecations before 2.0 are broken. It‚Äôs an issue of url mappings. Currently looking into this issue together with Serena to fix the issue long-term. It would be useful to have CI tests, so it‚Äôs trackable if any of these links break in the future

CM: It‚Äôs been difficult to contribute to deprecations, sometimes committers were unaware that a change might update a link

TD: Should the urls generated by the framework be based on the id and the version instead to make the process easier?

CM: I wrote a script to extract all the deprecations and this is something that we could use for regression testing through CI

TD: If there‚Äôs something we can do on the Framework side, let me know

CM: I‚Äôll look into it and try to fix it

RM: We had a discussion on redirects before, maybe we should chat together

CM: Sounds good

### Deprecations App as Standalone App (separate from the rest of website)

RM: Let‚Äôs discuss the way forward

MS: If it‚Äôs easier to have it as a standalone in regards to contribution, feel free to do so

RM: It might not help with keeping links to deprecations by making it a standalone

RM: Let‚Äôs brainstorm a bit more

RM: Also it would be really cool to take a look into using fragments (or not) in the deprecation urls. It might help to use url segments instead, so we can track broken links and redirect through the server if necessary


### Contributors Interview

JJ: We just started doing contributor interviews for the Ember Times and would publish the first one tomorrow. Would it be cool if we just create a new forum category called "Community" to post interviews there?

*nods and thumbs ups*

### Handbook Update for the Learning Team

MS: Let's agree on new terms for the learning team to get each member more involved into leading it. The PR for updating
the handbook was reviewed by everyone on the team and [can be merged](https://github.com/ember-learn/handbook/pull/11/files).
