# Feburary 12, 2021

## Agenda

- (public) (15 min) RFC template pedagogy (RM)
- (public) (5 min) FCP `@cached` (CHG)
- (public) (5 min) modernized-built-in-components feature flag (GC)
- (public) (10 min) Discuss [set helper/keyword](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/594) (CHG)
- (public) (10 min) Discuss [Argument Validation Primitives](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/694) (CHG)
- (public) (10 min) Discuss [Argument Default Primitives](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/695) (CHG)
- (public) (10 min) `htmlSafe` and `@ember/string` deprecations

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz (YK)
- [ ]  Tom Dale (TD)
- [x]  Kris Selden (KS)
- [ ]  Leah Silber (LS)
- [x]  Robert Jackson (RJ)
- [ ]  Igor Terzic (IT)
- [x]  Matthew Beale (MB)
- [x]  Edward Faulkner (EF)
- [x]  Dan Gebhardt (DG)
- [x]  Godfrey Chan (GC)
- [x]  Ricardo Mendes (RM)
- [x]  Chad Hietala (CH)
- [x]  Katie Gengler (KG)
- [ ]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [ ]  Jen Weber (JW)
- [x]  Chris Garrett (CG)

## Action Items

- [ ]  TODO: Schedule breakout session for RFC templates @Ricardo Mendes (add yourself below)
- [ ]  FCP `@cached` RFC once updated with API docs and info on avoiding "sprinkles" @Chris H Garrett
- [ ]  Merge + Enable [modernized built in components PR](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/19382/files)
- [ ] 

## Minutes

### RFC template pedagogy

RM: I had an item to look at updating the template (for deprecations in particular) around how to teach this.

RJ: I recall it a little differently, I think we want to add more detail/subsections to the pedagogy section. Because the template doesn't say what to do but we have specific goals (like draft your deprecation guide) people end up feeling like they are jumping through hoops we set up.

YK: We added "how you can teach this", the Rust team decided not to take that. Instead they added a section for asks for guide-level and api-level documentation. The idea was that the guide-level documentation would express "how do you teach this"

YK: The api-level docs seem good

YK: However the guide-level docs are less ideal. Not everybody has a crisp idea of how the guides are supposed to work and teach, so they are often wrong. I think I might want "how it fits in" as a category which support guide-level docs or as an alternative. I don't want people to have to learn the mental model of what the guides are and how we think of it to write an RFC.

RM: I've tried to explain to RFC writers how to approach this, and they usually end up referring to the transition path as "how we teach this" or pointing at the detailed design. I haven't nailed down a way I can explain it to people.

RJ: I think those are failings of the template

YK: If I understand correctly the concern is that "how do I teach this" as a title is poor

RJ: Yes that is in the template

YK: I think the template is maybe ok, but the header is pretty bad

RJ: I think the detailed design is often the API docs, and how you teach this for API docs would just be that. So we should say it.

YK: The important thing about the transition section is that it things about all the cases. Not all those cases may be important for teaching the change though.

YK: I think we should replace "how do i teach this" in a deprecation RFC with "write the deprecation guide"

RJ: Right but in a normal RFC, we should ask for the API documentation

YK: And for deprecations we should prompt them to write the actual warnings

RJ: For deprecations we also don't say what the "until" is, or when we will remove it. There should be some vague idea in there about those values in the RFC.

RJ: If you have these things, it also makes it pretty easy to know "this RFC is not for 4.0", which is helpful to communicate.

(discussion, planning for a breakout session)

### FCP @cached

CG: We agreed @cached as proposed makes sense (with no options). The other behaviors like managing a destroyable would be better in effects or resources. This comes with a caveat that we could add those features to cached via a decorators.

KS: If we decide that resource is more complicated and this underpins it and we do want to...

RJ: My understanding is that the cached primitive underlies @cached

KS: I wanted to be sure that adding arguments here is not a breaking changed

(agreement)

YK: Basically we expect there to be another version of the primitive later

RJ: But the high level API is ok

YK: I want to talk to people about when they should use @cached, and make sure people don't sprinkle it around because it causes problems.

YK: I think it should be very expensive like creating nodes, or doing something to avoid layout.

CG: I think you can probably use a modifier for that case, but sure

YK: Another example, putting text into a canvas to measure it

CG: I just reviewed the RFC again and noted the API docs are missing. I'll add the API docs, mention how we want to teach this. I don't think of this as a primary part of the reactivity features, more of an intermediate feature.

YK: Basically we think for the whole reactivity system to hang together you need to figure out the other primitives.

(agreement to FCP, pending API docs and the teaching update)

### modernized built-in component feature flag

GC: At least as status update: AFAICT everything is implemented on the PR. I need to finish implementing LinkTo. It should be fairly straightforward. The question is: Assuming the current PR is merged, should we enable the FF now or wait for LinkTo? I think it will be before the next meeting anyway.

GC: I think it is not high risk or a "feature", just wanted a flag to keep it easy to turn off if needed.

RJ: We're talking about master fwiw. Plenty of time to shake things out. Recently we broke master and got quick feedback on it which is neat.

RJ: I've reviewed half, 10 left.

GC: It might be easier by commit, but too late maybe.

RJ: I think it is useful to enable asap to get the most feedback. I don't believe there is risk here, so I'd rather just get the feedback. I don't want it in the same PR but as a followup seems good.

RJ: So next thing is...

### set helper keyword

CG: There is an RFC for this which has been sitting around a while. We have `(mut` which has some issues. For example it is fairly un-intuitive how to curry. It also ties back into the old two-way binding system. In most cases it doesn't come up but you can in edge cases do thing that helpers normally can't do.

CG: Basically accepts an object, path, and value

CG: The weird thing is that the get helpers is immediate, but the `set` helper returns a callback which is used later to set a value.

CG: It makes the naming asymmetric. So maybe this is better as lazy-set or set-later or something. I will say it is a very common use case.

RJ+YK: Agreed that naming is concerning

(ideation and discussion)

### argument validation & default primitives

CG: This and the default primitive proposal cover commonly requested functionality. I think the final API will need to align with the template import syntax, so I tried to avoid making any close coordination in the design.

CG: (walking through the RFC)