# 2019-07-25

Facilitator & Note Taker: Jen

## Today's Topics

- showing working group/strike teams on the website
- Netlify revisited (CM)
- Website Project update (CM)
- Review Initiatives Board

## Attendees

- [x]  Chris Manson (CM)
- [x]  Amy Lam (AL)
- [ ]  Ricard Mendes (RM)
- [x]  Jessica Jordan (JJ)
- [ ]  Sivakumar Kailasam (SK)
- [x]  Todd Jordan (TJ)
- [ ]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [x]  Jen Weber (JW)
- [x]  Kenneth Larsen (KL)
- [ ]  David Baker (DB)
- [ ]  Robert Wagner (RW)

## Action Items

- [ ]  Facilitator to add notes to [core-notes GitHub repo](https://github.com/emberjs/core-notes/) (last 2 weeks)
- [x]  Add 10 mins to the next meeting to go over the project board
- [ ]  Try adding Embroider to Guides tests
- [ ]  CM and MS will meet to hand over Melâ€™s champion items
- [ ]  JW - boilerplate in RFC tracking - WIP
- [ ]  CM - review [https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-styleguide/pull/130](https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-styleguide/pull/130)
- [ ]  CM/JW finish off stale PRs in the spreadsheet that we are the authors of (plus Mel)
- [x]  JW - do some RFC tracking reviews
- [x]  JW: ask who is willing to be a code owner on the Guides so we can try Pull Panda (and share results)
- [x]  JW - update and share the octane ship date blog post
- [ ]  JW - PR to the handbook for the community maintainer
- [ ]  Next week - showing working group/strike teams on the website

## Minutes

- Stale PRs - pretty ok, only 11

Netlify

- CM - there are no more random query params on requests now. This is a shot in the dark to see if that was the problem so we'll have to wait and hope that it's fixed. Kenneth helped review!

Website project

- CM - it's going well, we have resolved some font permissions issues. Will have a better idea of timelines for next week.
- JW - is it a small-group spike or will there be opportunities for people to help?
- CM - hard to involve more people when we are behind, but we need tight turnarounds. If people are interested to help, they should contact Chris first, and we are not publicizing a call for contributors yet.
- 

Projects board

- JW - we should reach out to Siva to get the Glimmer Docs on the project board
- CM - I can reach out to Siva
- JW - I will also share an update that Tom is working on the Glimmer docs

Open floor

- TJ - working on fixing the angle brackets vs curly brackets showing in the API docs. We did have a feature flagging thing in the past that we could use, but there's no way to easily fix this for the old stuff. The question is, when do we need/use the curly bracket documentation?
- JW - we need to show the entire supported API surface but that doesn't mean that both need to be shown for every example. Could also deduplicate content w/the guides
- JW - broken source code links?