# 2019-08-01

Facilitator & Note Taker:

## Today's Topics

- Inspector release issues
- Website redesign status
- Next release scheduled for week of Aug 5th

## Attendees

- [ ]  Chris Manson (CM)
- [ ]  Amy Lam (AL)
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes (RM)
- [x]  Jessica Jordan (JJ)
- [ ]  Sivakumar Kailasam (SK)
- [x]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [x]  Jen Weber (JW)
- [ ]  Kenneth Larsen (KL)
- [ ]  David Baker (DB)
- [x]  Robert Wagner (RW)

## Action Items

- [ ]  Facilitator to add notes to [core-notes GitHub repo](https://github.com/emberjs/core-notes/)
- [x]  RW - leading next week
- [ ]  JW - Ask Amy to add pull panda volunteers
- [x]  JW - ask Siva if there is a week he can drop by
- [x]  JW - PR to the handbook for the community maintainer
- [x]  Next week - showing working group/strike teams on the website
- [ ]  Facilitator to add notes to [core-notes GitHub repo](https://github.com/emberjs/core-notes/) (last 2 weeks)
- [x]  Try adding Embroider to Guides tests
- [x]  CM and MS will meet to hand over Melâ€™s champion items
- [ ]  ~~JW - boilerplate in RFC tracking - WIP~~
- [ ]  CM - review [https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-styleguide/pull/130](https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-styleguide/pull/130)
- [x]  CM/JW finish off stale PRs in the spreadsheet that we are the authors of (plus Mel)

## Minutes

- Inspector release issues
    - Releases keep breaking Ember Inspector