# Learn Team Agenda 2019-06-13

## Topics
- Review last week’s action items (facilitator copy them over here)
- How is our PR queue doing? How many older than a week? Tracking sheet
- Review new RFCs/RFC Tracking
- Any suggestions for the Ember Times? Add writeup ideas / call for contributors / suggestions to the latest PR or #support-ember-times on Discord.
- Consensus on listing strike team members on the emberjs.com website (similar to rust’s working group section on their website or the vue team page) - @sivakumar k (move to next week)
- Update: Website Redesign @Melanie S 
- Need: I need another level deep on the guides. It’s too shallow at the moment @Melanie S 
- (AL) Next This.JavaScript State of Frameworks is August 13. I’m happy to do it or does someone else prefer to? They sent me an email asking.  
- Next week is release week - are we ready?
- Sharing the current plan for Test Helpers and Glimmer docs. Need feedback from this team before I share with the framework team.
- “splatributes” documentation? issue: https://github.com/ember-learn/guides-source/issues/862


## Action Items 
[ ] The facilitator adds today’s public notes to the Core Meeting Notes repo (instructions)
Minutes


## Attendees (Initials: Name @Discord)
[ ] DB: David Baker (acorncom)
[x] TJ: Todd Jordan (todd.jordan)
[ ] JJ: Jessica Jordan (jessica)
[ ] SK: Sivakumar Kailasam (Siva)
[x] AL: Amy Lam (amyrlam)
[x] CM: Chris Manson (Chris Manson)
[ ] RM: Ricardo Mendes (locks)
[ ] LS: Leah Silber (wifelette)
[x] MS: Melanie Sumner (melsumner)
[x] JW: Jen Weber (jenweber)
[x] KL: Kenneth Larsen (kennethlarsen)
[x] RW: Robert Wagner (rwwagner90)


## Notes

### Review new RFCs/RFC Tracking

Discussion summary - we haven’t finished these off solo, so we need to change our strategy. RM shared that the remaining 12 require group discussion and he’s read them all. RM will comment on the tracking issues with the outstanding questions, and make a list on next week’s agenda that we can go through. As a fallback, we’ll go through them workshop-style at the next meeting.


### Angle brackets LinkTo and Input
- RM - Where to document them in the API docs? They are both components and helpers
- JW - seems good to link between both places. Which is the place for the “real” components?
- RM - could use help thinking through this. Right now, Helpers are where the docs are and the Component is empty


### Stale PR review
- KL - A lot of stale PRs are from our own team - consider adding WIP to your PRs if accurate
- JW - 


### Adding strike teams to the website
- MS - we should table this until next week when Siva is here
- RM - is this a steering committee thing?
- MS - no, we own the website
- CM - could be good to also show the meeting times
- RM - I tried to gather call info a while back, pretty cool for us to have this
- AL - need to think through how to do strike team alumni, when they start contributing
- MS - we could maybe have an automated way to do this, but let’s table this



### Nesting in the guides
- MS - we need this
- KL - already working on it some!
- FS - Vue’s sidebar is good inspiration
- JW - I might be able to justify work time on this. Need it for Cardstack guides
- CM -  ping me if you need help!


### Next week is the release
KL - are we ready? Please review the things that will be included
JW - I can help with the release, and added the blog blurb as a shipping requirement in the RFC tracking issues


### Bringing Glimmer and Test Helpers into the API Docs

Takeaways - Glimmer docs are outdated and we don’t want to use them. Should try to make whatever we do fit with the future API docs app. Timeline for a new API docs app is very far away.


