# Mar 27, 2020

## Agenda

- (10 **min**) Autotracking Primitives [https://gist.github.com/pzuraq/8bbc47db0dbf3f713a79623250b8d29a](https://gist.github.com/pzuraq/8bbc47db0dbf3f713a79623250b8d29a) (CHG)
- (10 **min**) `{{box}}` [https://github.com/pzuraq/ember-box](https://github.com/pzuraq/ember-box) (CHG)
- Embroider information void (KG)

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz (YK)
- [x]  Tom Dale (TD)
- [ ]  Kris Selden (KS)
- [ ]  Leah Silber (LS)
- [x]  Robert Jackson (RJ)
- [x]  Igor Terzic (IT)
- [ ]  Matthew Beale (MB)
- [ ]  Edward Faulkner (EF)
- [ ]  Dan Gebhardt (DG)
- [ ]  Godfrey Chan (GC)
- [ ]  Ricardo Mendes (RM)
- [x]  Chad Hietala (CH)
- [ ]  Katie Gengler (KG)
- [ ]  Melanie Sumner (MS)
- [ ]  Jen Weber (JW)
- [x]  Chris Garrett (CG)

## Minutes

### Autotracking Primitives

CG: This would be a low level set of functions that would be used to tie into the autotracking system as a whole. You can do things like create your own custom root state or create your own custom state contexts. Here is an example of a tracked map. Or you might create a cached decorator that only re-runs when a dependency changes. You can add caching, memoization and invalidation to something like a data layer. Tags are a representation of a piece of root state. You can later on consume that tag and entangle it with any reactive contexts that are running that code. Finally, you can dirty that tag to let those contexts know that something has changed and they need to re-run them. All of those contexts are memoizedTracked effectively.

CG: Wanted to get feedback on this in general. This is a minimal public interface. I've worked with it a lot in Glimmer.js now and am feeling pretty confident in it. It also exposes far fewer of the implementation details to users, which I think will be very valuable. E.g. previous iterations had something like memoizedTracked, but rather than returning a value, it would return a tag that was a combinator of all tags consumed during that computation. Problematic because this exposes the internal detail of combinator tags. The important thing is that the computation (i.e. this function) is only re-run if the root state changed. RJ had some good feedback in his initial review. Tags are intended to be part of the public API. You don't make your tags available for people to consume. They should be treated as an internal detail of your tracked map, data layer, etc. The other tricky thing is that memoizedTracked creates an instance of a memoized function. You need to create a new function for every time you create something. E.g. you'd want to create a new memoized function per instance of a tracked map.

RJ: Is the request for async feedback?

CG: Yes, or we can schedule a breakout group to review if people are interested.

RJ: We can do it in the Glimmer VM meeting if it's the same cohort of interested people. I gave you my concerns the other day. I want to understand the goal.

*KS and YK are going back and forth in the chat*

YK: Clarifying question: how did you conclude that we should expose tags as the first pass in the first place?

CG: One reason is for future flexibility around debugging APIs. Ideally, we want a way for people to pass metadata to a dirty and a consume and a create of tags. To say "this is what this piece of data represents" or "here is what this dirty operation logically means." This is something that we do currently in the autotracking implementation. I'm worried about providing a higher level API that doesn't provide this feature.

RJ: One thing that's important to realize is that the words here use the word tag, but there's nothing as far as I can tell nothing here says that the return value is the tag as returned by the VM. Instead it's an opaque value returned that can be passed to other functions in the future to indicate the piece of data.

CG: I'll add that this should not expose any internal details.

RJ: It would be good to show how you would implement `@tracked` using the public API. I believe you can author all of the parts of this feature using this proposal.

CG: Another reason that might be better than something like a storage cell API is that there are use cases where that isn't what you want to do. E.g. you want to transparently wrap a JSON payload using a proxy. You want the thinnest possible layer on top of that JSON payload, not reassigning every value in it to a new object, making a wrapping tracked box around every property.

KS: There were APIs at the last F2F that I showed you that did that. There were two that hid the tag. One provided accessors. One you got a dirty marker you could put on a change event. Some things you need to integrate.

CG: We can continue exploring that. If you think that would be cleaner, we can explore that.

KS: I think you need two. There are two patterns of integration. One doesn't do the other. What you did does both, but it's leaky. The other two would do the tracked/map case, but you need another one to let you read it and tell you it had changed.

CG: ...and do it as performantly as possible. The current proposal is definitely leaky in the sense that it's not super intuitive and people could use anti-patterns with tags that cause problems. But I do think that we'd be leaning on people to treat it as what it is, a power tool, and only use it as necessary.

KS: It's for people building integrations, which gives it a different audience.

RJ: It's like the modifier manager API. We don't expect people to be using it all the time.

KS: We need to make sure we teach it because we don't want everyone to say that in order to use a third party thing I need to wait for someone to wrap it in a tracked thing. We need to teach people to integrate, if there's no tracked version.

YK: On the topic of teaching...

KS: We shouldn't make it so that it's not accessible, it's more that it's something you dont' have to reach for commonly.

CG: 100%. :100:

YK: On the topic of teaching, even though it's a primitive, we should highlight the memoization primitive over the lower level ones. IF you can get away with using that, your life will be much easier than using the lower level primitives.

CG: Agreed. Last comment: tracked memoize is more accurate, but I realized that it would cause autocomplete in editors to present that option when people started writing `@tracked`. I wanted an option that wouldn't show up that eagerly when people were writing apps.

YK: I was saying in the chat that because it's a low level feature, it's a feature not a bug if the name is somewhat cryptic. We don't want people to accidentally pick it up, but we want pioneers to "gorge" on it.

CH: _proposes in chat silly name __unstable_Tracked_memoized_

Group: *rejects Chad's proposal*

CG: *presents something*

CG: I wrote a blog post about two way binding and why is there a hesitance ot get rid of the two way binding pattern in general. I was fixated on aligning on a single DDAU model. But this discussion made me realize that there is a lot of value in 2WB, preventing a lot of boiler plate. Ember box tries to rationalize 2WB in terms of DDAU. It follows DDAU philosophy, but gives you something that looks and works like 2WB, but without the downsides. It's very similar to the original idea of `mut`. Users would be forced to opt in to 2WB. `mut` was originally meant to be much more integrated into the framework, but `ember-box` can't be highly integrated. In general, having worked with it, I think this is actually ag ood thing. Users should be consciously thinking about it and instrumenting their components to use it in various ways. The box name comes from other languages. A box generally points to a location in memory, anyone who has the box can unwrap that location in memory. There are owners who can mutate that location in memory. It's kind of similar in that a box in Ember points to a value on an object, which is effectively a location in memory. We can pass that value around and mutate it transparently in a few places. The API I have here is very functional, and the whole point of this API is that it's very clear when we're dealing with a box vs. when we're not dealing with a box or expecting a box. When you see unwrapValue you're expecting a box or maybe box. The other point of it is that other than having methods on the box directly, we force you to go through mutate or unwrap functions. It builds in this convention of treating things as "it could be a box or not." A user can decide whether they want to pass in a box or not. Another major feature of boxes is that you can wrap them. Wrappers allow you to do something when the value of a box changes. This eliminates one of the major issues of 2WB, which basically required observers back in the day. Because you'd have layers of components that were 2WB and there were no actions, in order to react to changes you'd have to rewrite everything to actions or use an observer. Here's an example of a component that doesn't use actions, we only have an input value. I can intercept that change, prevent that change, I get a super function that allows me to propagate that change. You can wrap a wrapped box a repeated number of times. You can unwrap a box and it "flat maps" it by unwrapping every layer and giving you the final value. That's basically box in a nutshell. I'd like some feedback on the API. Open to exploring different directions as well, this is just the direction I spiked it out.

YK: I have a few things. First of all, I think this is good. I think the philosophy is good. Let me phrase my feedback as open questions. One of them is, while it is probably important to have unwrap available if you're communicating with JS, it's possible we'd auto unwrap if you're communicating with the DOM. There's precedent for that in the existing semantics. THe way I tend to think about it is that if you say `{{some Arbtirary Value}}` you're talking about something with whatever semantics. One downside is that it would confuse people because they wouldn't know when or when not they have to unwrap things.

YK: The other open question is doing nothing if you pass in nothing to an updating function vs. error.

CG: I think there may be cases where you do want to error and other cases where you definitely don't. I want to avoid boilerplate. Maybe we start with the explicit version that requires more boilerplate, but eventually I want to design an API that doesn't require it.

YK: I don't have an objection to maybeUnwrap. But what might happen is that people try to implement something like input and forget to create boxes and "nothing happens." I think it's better to start off assuming that if someone wants to unwrap something they're expecting a box, but add facilities for people to handle both cases later.

YK: I agree that if we don't force you to unwrap it for the DOM, we want the semantics you have specced here.

CG: That is a downside, as they get used to the API, they'll be confused why things don't update when they forget to pass in a box. COnverssely, that's part of the feature—if you don't want something to be updated, you opt out. If update always threw an error if you didn't have a box, you would prevent that behavior.

YK: Can we retrofit the existing 2WB as boxes?

CG: I'm not sure we can. We can definitely think about it. I'm not sure that we can.

YK: You understand why I'm asking, right?

CG: They're very similar features.

YK: In sloppy mode, everything is a box. In strict mode, you have to opt into box. The issue is that we want `@value` to take something. We want to say it takes some careful dancing. It would be better if we said it takes a box, and that's what's been happening all along. In strict mode, you have to opt in.

CG: I hesitate to tie that to strict mode, as that is going to be a massive transition anyway.

YK: Forgetting about strict mode for a second, we need an opt in somewhere.

CG: This is also why I called it box instead of `mut` or mutable cell. It's a fairly good name but unfortunately it's already taken. I thought you were saying to chagne the behavior of mutable cells or something.

YK: At the F2F we talked about how the semantics are that it's already the case that when you pass a value, we make a box, and it has an update symbol in it. Reference is the value that's getting passed around in Glimmer.

CG: It's not a super entrenched API.

YK: It's important to understand that's how it works in the current semantics, otherwise the `@value` semantics wouldn't work.

 *exposition on an example of passing around values through multiple components*

YK: Everything is a box. How do you know that? The update symbol is already on there.

CG: If I understand you, we expose the existing system and make it more public. Or we make the system use hte new thing.

YK: I'm proposing we make the new system. We explain the 2WB system as being a box. Maybe we change the existing implementation to use the new system, maybe. Let's say you say that's the semantics. You have to figure out what's the point of box if there's no opt in. At some point we need to say that you need to type it. It could be like the this deprecation where it's not a strict mode deprecation, but at some point we start telling people that they really need to type box. Does that make sense as a next step/open question to work out?

CG: Yeah, especially in terms of the teaching story.

YK: Before we advance this, I want us to figure out how the box story fits into the existing semantics. Are they the same? If they are, what does that mean in terms of how things like `@input={{value}}` work today.

CG: We also need to figure out if there's a way to migrate components that expect everything passed in to be 2WB transparently. At some point, this could be an optional feature, or would be a new name.

YK: I want to dig in sometime next week how much it's possible that we can say the existing 2WB system is just box. That gives us a lot of flexibility. It's like how the this.wahtever fallback story was explained in terms of the new semantics. The more we can do that the better.

RJ: I think it's easier to explain the thing we're proposing here than the mutable cell thing and this.attrs on a component at time. I think we took the magic too far. Having it do a magical thing when you insert into the DOM is conceptually in the realm of what Glimmer VM can decide to do anyways. That's easier to intuit in the world we have today. The issue we have to solve for rationalizing this is explaining why unwrapping is automatic as well, because it is seemingly. E.g. when you pass input it doesn't have to do anything special to update the value. I think we can rationalize it. We need to juxtapose that position with what we were saying earlier, which is that you don't want to write try and wrap a bunch. EIther you expect a wrapped value or not. Those two positions feel like they are counter to each other.

YK: I don't think they are, but you're bringing up somethign that is a problem. If the rule is that any path becomes boxed, the rule is not any variables. WE agreed we don't want to make any variables boxed. If you say this.foo, in the DOM, we can have any rule we want. The rule we have to have if everything is boxed is everything has to be unwrapped. If we pass a box into JS today, we want explicit boxes to pass the box into JS, so people can unwrap it, but we want implicit boxes to unwrap. I think those are the semantics we'll need if we go down the path. The only questions is, does that work?

CG: This is why I was hesistant about reconciling this in the first place.

RJ: There has to be a rationalization that isn't "trust me, I got you."

YK: CG's alternative is that we have a new system and make it an optional feature. Things historically work better for us when we create a new system and try to rationalize the old system in terms of the new. I think this one doesn't take as much work as e.g. partial. Most of the time implicit vs. explicit box doesn't make a difference. But we need a way to check for the times hwen it does make a difference. WE need to look at input to see if a rationalization will make the transition seamless anyway.

CG: That's great feedback and now I have something to noodle on some more.

RJ: We need to be careful not to recreate the mut problem, where simple things become hard. Where this.attrs.value.value are used all over the place when you don't expect to pass it around to everyone. If we teach people they can arbitrarily pass boxes or non-boxes everywhere, I think that will create problems for people.

YK: One important difference is taht with mut we had to deal with this.set. That was kind of an intractable problem.

RJ: Also having ot access propreties directrly on the component instance and not being able to tell the differenc ebetwee args.

YK: Something about using component managers getting the raw details and doing the write thing.

RJ: I want to follow the trajectory we've picked, the reason we made angle brackets not the invocation but instead of a base class—this is a similar sort of choice. IF we make it a global opt in flag, it makes migration hard for our users. HOpefully we can put some time in now to figure out how rationalization would work, even if it's not completely simple to explain, having a "proof" if you will is still worth our time.

YK: To be fair, there's work we sitll have to do to explain classic components to users who want to dig in. If we do this,w e really have to do that. There are so many component managerr shenanigans going on to make curly components work that no other component would use, especially the wrapping stuff. Mayeb an Atlas page explaining why a classic component is still a compositional component.

DG: Is there value in adding the overhead to make this work everywhere?

RJ: It only works in the template, it doesn't work in the JS.

RJ: You're forced to use classic components if you want to support cases where the component can mutate values passed in directly.

YK: One weird thing is that we pass the reference transparently through places. You might think that we have all this overhead but at least we have debugging, we don't try to even rewrap it in debugging mode. So for debugging you only know where a value came from.

RJ: I think that's something we can solve, we can push something on to a stack everywhere it's passed.

YK: I think it would help us a lot to ratioalize what an internal reference actually looks like. WE're nerevous about any kind of wrapping because it's hard to guarantee the "proxy" is actually working, because we tend to throw things on to it.

RJ: Yes, but I think we're better than we were. The update that landed in 3.17 simplified things a lot. Most of the references that Ember had no longer exist.

CG: They're mostly extensions of the ones pulled in upstream.

YK: I think your intuition is right. IF everything Ember is doing is a "sanctioned thing," doing things like getting debug info as references are passed thorugh the system would be easier to do. Currently we have the overhead without the benefits.

DG: I just want to add that the term reference is pretty natural here, and maybe something like "ref" would be a nice fit for an API. As opposed to mut or box.

CG: Ref could work.

YK: For better or worse, ref is kind of taken by React.

RJ: And it's so different from React's thing.

DG: It's punning on pass by reference vs pass by value.

RJ: The problem I have is we're not actually passing in the reference in Glimmer VM terms. We're talking about a different thing anyways. Maybe we can simplify it enough to make it work. It's a little different than the refs internally. Maybe something like byRef or something would work. Putting on my Visual Basic hat, that feels pretty natural to me.

CG: There's one other topic we should probably get to.

### Embroider Information Void

KG: I added this because there was a conversation in Discord around frustration about things being "blocked by Embroider." A lot of people blocked on EMbroider but people not knowing the status or how to help. Lot sof questions in the Discord channel but not a lot of answers. How can we get people more info and better engage the community?

EF: You're absolutely right, and I Don't know where to start. I'm flat out on just trying to ship the thing.

RJ: We can do things like polish the RFC and ship it. I know we don't have a lot of time. There are af ew thigns that still need answers. But it's a thing we can do to start the long arduous process of migrating the addon ecosystem over, similar to what we did with jQuery where people had a long period of time to absorb.

RJ: There are addons out there that flat out not oging to work, or are authored in a way that just doesn't jive with where the world is going. We need to plug the hole so people have to think about Embroider compat as they're working. Until we can do that we're gonna have more and more problems.

KG: If we just put that somewhere public, people would be a lot happier. It's not so much technical issues, as much as people just wanting to know what's happening.

EF: Something in an official voice would definitely be good.

YK: Let me put this out there. I think where we're at is close to where we were early in the Octane timeframe. WE had a lot of things that no one could use because the addon system wasn't ready yet. But it didn't stop us from talking about it, giving people a generator, and clearly communicating that things don't work right now. I think wer'e getting to the point where we should start doing something similar for Embroider. It needs a name. We don't need to tell people when it will be done. But right now people don't have a sanctioned way of trying it out to see where it's at. Right now I have to ping EF to know how to set up an app using it.

RJ: I think we're at an earlier part of that process. Right now, we're pre decision to do Embroider. We're in the pit of despair/incoherence. The thing works, there's just a lot of edge cases that are mostly self-inflicted wounds, non-trivially my fault. We have to cross that part and get it into the part where we're "doing the thing." I think the Octane framing is good. I'm not sure an edition is exactly the right thing here. It's fine if it is, but it doesn't seem like we'll have the incoherence in the public-facing space like we did with Octane. So I don't know if it needs that exact thing. But it needs the PR push and the polish levels. Maybe that means we need to do an edition.

YK: I think as soon as we start doing the router we're going to have the same incoherence problem.

EF: It doesn't need an edition but it would make sense if it were rolled into a new edition. We need to follow through on the RFC. I could do a blog post for the official blog, talking about the status and the official plan. We want to wrap up the RFC pretty soon, give addons better guidance for stabilizing. It's a two pronged attack: here's how to try it now, and there's a lot of compatibility layer stuff in place. Second, here's how we move addons forward.

YK: I think that's a good idea. Even without the router, the addon ecosystem stuff makes it a good idea to me. I think we'll probably have an edition within a year or so, we have to do Router work.

RJ: We were spoiled by Octane, very logical grouping of features. When I talk to non-core folks, it's confusing what possible grouping could be that coherent again. All just made sense together. Embroider is quickly reaching that point.

CG: I think we can pitch imports and embroider together.

YK: Main issues are coming from not having a new edition to point to for the community. We need a way to rally behind it.

RJ: Pretty easy to add a npx tool that allows folks to opt-in. Personally think it's going to be a pain for folks to migrate until we get addons to avoid doing "bad things" that cause it to fail.

YK: The thing that worked with Octane was that it gave people a way to try it out, without any expectation that it would "just work", in the ecosystem or in general. We had a way to point to it, had an officially sanctioned page on the site, etc.

RJ: We should not mention a new edition though at this point, don't want people to get the wrong idea (Octane just landed).