# @Jan 17, 2020

## Agenda

- RFCs
    - → FCP
    - FCP → Merge
    - → FCP to Close
        - (**5 min**) [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/202](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/202) Allow the `with` helper accept named arguments (RM)
    - FCP to Close → Close
    - Enable
    - Discussion
        - (**10 mins**) [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/572](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/572) Promise-based initializers (RM)
        - (**10 mins**) [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/574](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/574) Controller Injection Deprecation (RM)
        - (**5 mins**) [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/233](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/233) Replace any in favour of some (RM)
            - (**10min**) [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/560](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/560)
            [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/561](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/561/files)
            [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/562](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/562/files)
            New template operators.
        - Deprecation Shaking: [https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/565](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/565) (CHG)
- (**5min**) [https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/18595](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/18595) was `_transition` purposefully omitted?
    - (**5min**) [https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/18596](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/18596)
- (**5min**) [https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/15652](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/15652) is this worth to revive?
- (**10min**) [https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/18654](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/issues/18654)

## Attendees

- [x]  Yehuda Katz
- [ ]  Tom Dale
- [ ]  Kris Selden
- [ ]  Leah Silber
- [ ]  Robert Jackson
- [ ]  Igor Terzic
- [ ]  Matthew Beale
- [x]  Edward Faulkner
- [x]  Dan Gebhardt
- [x]  Godfrey Chan
- [x]  Ricardo Mendes
- [ ]  Chad Hietala
- [x]  Katie Gengler
- [x]  Melanie Sumner
- [x]  Jen Weber
- [x]  Chris Garrett

## Minutes

### FCP to close RFC 202

YK: Let's punt on the FCP to close (RM proposed but is not present)

(*some discussion and then RM appears*)

CG: The problem that I have with `with` is that it doesn't take `as`

YK: The rationale for this RFC requires so much that's inconsistent with the current programming model. 

RM: The difference between this and the `hash` solution is that it doesn't support destructuring.

YK: When we do the `hash` syntax, we should not try to use JS syntax.

CG: I think that's orthogonal and we can FCP to close regardless.

YK: But it's worth keeping in mind.

### Promise-based initializers

YK: Initializers don't give you a loading spinner. The current recommendation is to put async in your application route.

CG: There is a very specific use case - in which there is very specific cue from the environment to delay booting the application. The native side can show a spinner while awaiting the booting of the application.

YK: One thing you could do is create a service that returns a promise. And that gets called from the application route.

CG: Let's try to meet with Mehul, the author of this RFC, to better understand his motivations.

YK: Specifically we need more in the motivation. Currently says "this is not nearly early enough" without further rationale, and we need more.

### Controller-injection deprecation

EF: We are not talking about injecting services into controllers. We are talking about injecting controllers into other controllers.

YK: These controller injections are very hard to reason about.

RM: Some opposition to this is based upon the desire to scope something like a service into one part of the app.

GC: It is relatively easy to use `resetNamespace` on controllers to avoid duplication.

YK: I've spent a lot of time on controllers this week and I think we want to avoid muddying the water.

YK: Seems like we're all in agreement to this deprecation, and that it's fine to do prior to deprecating controllers entirely.

### FCP to close RFC 233

YK: We are currently doing `Ember.A` We are replacing this with either `TrackedList` or with a react-style description of how to do the equivalent. 

*Discussion*

### Deprecation shaking

CG: Deprecations will be locked in at a particular version. 

CG: We don't provide tooling for addons to shake their own stuff, but we do provide the 

YK: Will this be enforced with a build time error?

CG: Yes

YK: I think the "How we teach this" section should be updated.

YK: There will be a lot of pressure on addons to include deprecation shaking. We want to put pressure on the ecosystem to put something in the `package.json`

YK: The build error will be a driving motivation.

CG: Also, Rob wants the default to *not* throw errors (when no version is provided). YK disagrees. YK, CG, and RJ to followup.

### Was `_transition` purposefully omitted?

YK: Is this a part of the API that we expect people to use? 

YK: I think that something, something ... we don't want to change `setupController` now

JW: We need to decide how we want to document transition objects. The only way to know now is to inspect the objects.

JW: There has been a lot of discussion about how much of transition, besides `retry` is supposed to be public.

YK: Hmmm `resetController` also takes `_transition`

JW: What's the next step?

YK: We need to ask machty if this is intentionally private because it's not intended to be used here. And we can check empirically whether that's true.

JW: I have a broader question about transitions, but we can discuss that later.

YK: I think this has fallen through the cracks in general.

### Should we revive [https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/15652](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/15652) ?

YK: This is a legacy feature and it does more harm than good to make changes to it now.

CG: We might have a period in which we are passing around multiple things.

YK: I agree.

RM: I will close this.

### Input component does not accept documented event names #18654

YK: The issue here is that we copied and pasted the attribute list from pre-octane to octane docs. It is unclear how you're supposed to think about general events.

JW: Showing that it's camelCased will help a lot.

YK: We really need to write new documentation for `Input` 

JW: How do we want people to use it? Should we even be showing `enter` 

GC: I think another way to look at it is what if you wrote the component yourself. Sometimes you want a higher level operation in which case you would take actions as arguments.

YK: There is a fatal problem knowing what the list of args is. The mental model gets polluted with `@type` for instance.

JW: What is the next step?

YK: We have to write the documentation for the components that we want to create.

YK: The action item is to decide which parts of the pre-octane APIs we still need now. We should document it as if it's a new component.

YK: I think we need a small strike team for this.

JW: Is there anybody who would like to help with this?

MS: I'm pretty focused on the accessibility implications of inputs, so I will volunteer.